Homework for Chapter 2 of Learning MySQL (2006 edition), from p. 94:

Exercises:
1) What is command completion?

"Command completion is a feature that can save you a lot of typing. When you start to type the anme of a command, file, or directory, pressing the completion key sequence cycles through matches."


2) What are the relative advantages of installing MySQL using the package,
 directory archive (tarball or "no-install", or compiled methods?

Relative Advantages:

	Package:
		- integrated packages commonly include all required software
		  (Apache, PHP, Perl, tools, etc.)
		- easier than integrating stand-alone packages
		- includes installation wizard
		- requires least knowledge
		- may be a couple of minor releases behind the current version
		- may not fit with current setup (eg. some of the components may
		  already be installed in the environment and this may lead to
		  duplicated components, or conflicts)


	Directory archive (tarball or "no-install":
		- slightly more complicated than installing via a package
		- does not require an installation program
		- is a ready to use collection of all required files correctly placed 
		  within a directory structure (the tarball archive just needs to be unpacked into 		  	  	  the destination location as required)


	Compiled methods:

		- Ensures most up-to-date version of the software
		- provides the greatest control over optimization 
		  (performance increase potentially up to 30%)
		- tedious and error-prone process
		- requires more knowledge



3) How do you verify the integrity of downloaded packages?

	Can use checksums (MD5 is frequently used)
	1) Download the package
	2) Run a tool against the downloaded package to calculate the MD5 checksum
	3) Compare the calculated MD5 checksum against the checksum provided with
	   the package distributor.

4) How do you add the MySQL bin directory to the operating system path?

	Under Windows 7:
	Type "Environment Variables" in the run line and hit Enter
	Edit the Path variable
	Add "C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 5.6\bin\;" to the Path



Additional Exercises (not in the book): 
1) Document how you installed MySQL and any issues you came across with installation. 
 (The goal is to be easy to install it again on a similar machine.)

	Installed the MySQL Community Server on my local machine (Windows 7)
	http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/
	Selected "MySQL Community Server 5.6.11"
	Selected platform "Microsoft Windows"
	Downloaded MySQL Installer 5.6 for Windows
	Signed up for an Oracle Web Account
	MD5: 3652992236d9680aca439e4f4c77a4e3
	Checked MD5 using www.nullriver.com/winmd5sum
	Ran mysql-installer-community-5.6.11.0.msi (right click and select "Install")
	Respond "Yes" to allow program to make changes
	Select "Install Updates"
	Click the "Execute" button
	Changed the root user password using mysqladmin

2) Document where important files should be.

	C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 5.6\bin
	MySql
	MySqlAdmin


Do not forget to do a pull request when your homework is complete.
