Exercises for chapter 9

1) What's the difference between a local and a remote user?

   A local user connects to the mysql server on the local host using a
   hostname of "localhost", the hostname of the host, the IP address
   127.0.0.1 or the IP address of the host.

   A remote user connects to the mysql server from any host other than the
   host whwre the mysql server is running.
   
2) When would you grant only read access to a user?

   You should grant only read access to a user when they have no requirement
   modify the databases hosted by the mysql server

3) Write a GRANT statement to create a user, rowena, who has privileges to
   execute SELECT, UPDATE, and INSERT statements on the contacts and
   appointment databases.

   The user should be allowed to access the server from machines in the domain
   invyhome.com.

   GRANT SELECT,UPDATE,INSERT ON contacts.*
         TO 'rowena'@'%.invyhome.com';
   GRANT SELECT,UPDATE,INSERT ON appointment.*
         TO 'rowena'@'%.invyhome.com';

4) Write a GRANT statement that modifies the privileges of the user rowena
   created in Question 3. Add privileges to SELECT from the customer table in
   the sales database, and to SELECT the debtor column from the invoice table
   in the accounts database.

   GRANT SELECT ON sales.customer TO 'rowena'@'%.invyhome.com';
   GRANT SELECT (debtor) ON accounts.invoice TO 'rowena'@'%.invyhome.com';

5) Three GRANT statements have been issued on your MySQL server:

 GRANT ALL ON *.* TO 'hugh'@'hugh.invyhome.com';
 GRANT SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE ON *.* TO 'hugh'@'%invyhome.com';
 GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO ''@'localhost';

    For each of the following attempts to connect to the server, state whether
    the connection is allowed and, if so, which user the client is connected
    as. Assume all connections are attempted from localhost:

     a) mysql --user=hugh --host=localhost

     If the fully-qualified name of "localhost" is hugh.invyhome.com, the
     user hugh will match the first GRANT statement and login as
     "hugh@localhost".

     Otherwise, the user "hugh" will match the third entry and login as the
     anonymous user ''@localhost.

     b) mysql --user=fred

     The user "fred" will match the third entry and login as the anonymous
     user ''@localhost.

     c) mysql

     The mysql monitor will match the third entry and login as the anonymous
     user ''@localhost.

6) You've been employed to evaluate the security of a MySQL installation.
   Assuming that you're already satisfied with the security configuration from
   the physical and operating system perspective, list four things that you'd
   check about the MySQL server. For each item, explain why you would check it
   and what you would expect the outcome to be.

   The four things I would do is:

   (1) Ensure that the mysql root user has a secure password. In an out of the
       box system, the mysql root password is blank. Since the root user has
       read/write access to all databases, can create and remove users, can
       grant and revoke access, it is vital that a secure password be assigned
       the the account.

   (2) Ensure a minimal number of mysql accounts for those applications or
       users have proven that they require access. For those accounts that
       are created, only assign the minimum access rights that they require.
       For example, if a user requires only read access to a database,
       specific tables within a database or specific columns within specific
       database tables, there is no need to grant write access such as the
       ability to insert or delete records from a database.

       Minimizing both the number of mysql accounts that can access the
       databases and the access rights of those accounts lowers the chances
       of an accidental or malicious issue with the server and its data.

   (3) Remove remnte access. Where possible, decrease the number of hosts that
       are allowed to connect to the mysql server. Ideally, connections should
       only be allowed from users on the local host.

       Removing remote access to the mysql server removes the chances tbat the
       mysql server will be attacked and compromised by a remote client.

   (4) Remove anonymous access. If the mysql server has an anonymous user
       account, any user can login without specifying a username. This
       decreases the security of the server, which is bad.

       In order to improve the security of the server, remove any anonymous
       user accounts.

7) You've recently installed a wireless access point for visitors to your
   office and configured it so that machines that connect through it have IP
   addresses in the range 192.168.1.1 to 192.168.1.254. You've decided you want
   users who connect to your MySQL server from those IP addresses to have only
   the SELECT privilege on the contacts database. What steps do you take in
   your MySQL privilege tables to set this up?

   INSERT INTO host VALUES ('192.168.1.%','contacts',
          'Y','N','N','N','N','N','N','N','N','N','N','N');
   FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
